Updating the API Quick Start (#358)
pymc-devs/pymc-examples: myst_nbs/pymc3_howto/api_quickstart.myst.md

---
jupytext:
  notebook_metadata_filter: substitutions
  text_representation:
    extension: .md
    format_name: myst
    format_version: 0.13
    jupytext_version: 1.13.7
kernelspec:
  display_name: Python 3 (ipykernel)
  language: python
  name: python3
---

> (general_api_quickstart)=

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(api_quickstart)=
```

we generally default to the filename so it is easy to know what target to use

> help(pm.Normal)

Reviewer: I am very against this line. Beginner users should not read raw docstrings

```

In the PyMC module, the structure for probability distributions looks like this:

> {ref}`_api_distributions`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{ref}`pymc:api_distributions`
```

The rst syntax to define targets includes the _, so it is not part of the generated target. This is also referring to the versioned docs, not references in the example gallery. It is technically a different website so we should be explicit about what website we want it to point to (otherwise we might get the wrong link if multiple docs in intersphinx mapping like arviz or scipy also have a `api_distributions` target)

Reviewer: Also, might be helpful: https://pymc-data-umbrella.xyz/en/latest/webinars/contributing_to_documentation/docs_presentation.html#cross-referencing-roles

- {ref}`Continuous`
- {ref}`Discrete`
- {ref}`Multivariate`
- {ref}`Mixture`
- {ref}`Timeseries`
- {ref}`Censored`

> - {ref}`Simulator`

Reviewer: These don't have any target defined, we'd need to add them in pymc versioned docs so we can reference them here

### Initialization with test_values

Though PyMC automatically initializes models, it is sometimes helpful to define initial values for RVs. This can be done via the `initval` kwarg:

```{code-cell} ipython3
with pm.Model() as model:
    x = pm.Normal("x", mu=0, sigma=1, shape=5)

model.initial_point
```

```{code-cell} ipython3
with pm.Model() as model:
    x = pm.Normal("x", mu=0, sigma=1, shape=5, initval=rng.standard_normal(5))

model.initial_point
```

This technique is sometimes useful when trying to identify problems with model specification or initialization.

+++

## 3. Inference

Once we have defined our model, we have to perform inference to approximate the posterior distribution. PyMC supports two broad classes of inference: sampling and variational inference.

### 3.1 Sampling

> The main entry point to MCMC sampling algorithms is via the `pm.sample()` function. By default, this function tries to auto-assign the right sampler(s).  `pm.sample()` returns an `arviz.InferenceData` object. `InferenceData` objects can easily be saved/loaded from a file and can carry additional (meta)data such as date/version and posterior predictive samples. Take a look at the [ArviZ Quickstart](https://arviz-devs.github.io/arviz/getting_started/Introduction.html) to learn more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The main entry point to MCMC sampling algorithms is via the `pm.sample()` function. By default, this function tries to auto-assign the right sampler(s).  `pm.sample()` returns an `arviz.InferenceData` object. `InferenceData` objects can easily be saved/loaded from a file and can carry additional (meta)data such as date/version and posterior predictive samples. Take a look at the {ref}`ArviZ Quickstart <arviz:quickstart>` to learn more.
```

```{code-cell} ipython3
# get values of a single chain
idata.posterior["mu"].sel(chain=2).shape
```

### 3.2 Analyze sampling results

The most common used plot to analyze sampling results is the so-called trace-plot:

```{code-cell} ipython3
with pm.Model() as model:
    mu = pm.Normal("mu", mu=0, sigma=1)
    sd = pm.HalfNormal("sd", sigma=1)
    obs = pm.Normal("obs", mu=mu, sigma=sd, observed=rng.standard_normal(100))

    idata = pm.sample(500)
```

```{code-cell} ipython3
az.plot_trace(idata);
```

Another common metric to look at is the Gelman-Rubin statistic, or R-hat:

```{code-cell} ipython3
az.summary(idata)
```

> R-hat is also presented as part of the `az.forestplot`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
R-hat is also presented as part of the `az.plot_forest`:
```

    approx = pm.FullRankADVI().fit()
```

```{code-cell} ipython3
with pm.Model() as model:
    pm.MvNormal("x", mu=mu, cov=cov)
    approx = pm.FullRankADVI().fit()
```

```{code-cell} ipython3
plt.figure()
idata = approx.sample(10000)
az.plot_kde(
    idata.posterior["x"].sel(chain=0, x_dim_0=0), idata.posterior["x"].sel(chain=0, x_dim_0=1)

> );

Reviewer: It might be a bit more natural to do:

```
az.plot_pair(idata, var_names="x", coords={"x_dim_0": [0, 1]})
```
